# BRFSS-dataset-EDA
 
The Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) is a collaborative project between all of the states in the United States (US) and participating US territories and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). The BRFSS is administered and supported by CDC's Population Health Surveillance Branch, under the Division of Population Health at the National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion. BRFSS is an ongoing surveillance system designed to measure behavioral risk factors for the non-institutionalized adult population (18 years of age and older) residing in the US. The BRFSS was initiated in 1984, with 15 states collecting surveillance data on risk behaviors through monthly telephone interviews. Over time, the number of states participating in the survey increased; by 2001, 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the US Virgin Islands were participating in the BRFSS. Today, all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Guam collect data annually and American Samoa, Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau collect survey data over a limited point- in-time (usually one to three months). In this document, the term “state” is used to refer to all areas participating in BRFSS, including the District of Columbia, Guam, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

The BRFSS objective is to collect uniform, state-specific data on preventive health practices and risk behaviors that are linked to chronic diseases, injuries, and preventable infectious diseases that affect the adult population. Factors assessed by the BRFSS in 2013 include tobacco use, HIV/AIDS knowledge and prevention, exercise, immunization, health status, healthy days — health-related quality of life, health care access, inadequate sleep, hypertension awareness, cholesterol awareness, chronic health conditions, alcohol consumption, fruits and vegetables consumption, arthritis burden, and seatbelt use. Since 2011, BRFSS conducts both landline telephone- and cellular telephone-based surveys. In conducting the BRFSS landline telephone survey, interviewers collect data from a randomly selected adult in a household. In conducting the cellular telephone version of the BRFSS questionnaire, interviewers collect data from an adult who participates by using a cellular telephone and resides in a private residence or college housing.

For three questions, I would like to investigate three different questions that interest me.

In the first question, I would like to investigate at different income levels, whether having children may have some effects on feeling anxious.

In the second question, The prevalence of obesity has increased worldwide in the past few years, reaching pandemic levels. However, it is not a good thing. From nature reviews endocrinology, obesity means increasing the risk of diseases. Nowadays, more and more people care about health and start to pay attention to their eating habits. For example, some people are advocating eating green vegetables. Eating vegetables is a very healthy habit, which is rich in vitamins and fiber.  In the second question, we investigate the differences in vegetable consumption between all BMI categories, and I would like to examine the relationship between eating vegetables.

For the third question, I want to calculate the health care coverage rate of different states, and get the health care coverage rate of different states, which state does the best health care, which state does not do well.

Perform exploratory data analysis (EDA) that addresses each of the three research questions, and use numerical summaries and visualization to do EDA. All the processes are completed by using R and Rmarkdown. 
